------------- NEW DOC -------------------

## Can Yale be Neutral? ### December 6, 1977

In 1970, a non-profit group called
the Project on Corporate Responsibility
sponsored a campaign among
shareholders in General Motors
advocating increased shareholder input
into the formulation of that company's
public policy, and increased attention
to the social and political consequences
of corporate actions. The trustees of
the Yale Corporation, which holds
103,600 shares in GM, abstained from
voting on the shareholder resolutions. They did so, they explained, " on the
principle that the Fellows of the
Corporation do not, and should not,
have the power to take a corporate
position on issues of a social or political
nature. This principle derives from the
philosophy that a university is a
collegium or forum for the expression
of a wide diversity of views. This
conception is the cornerstone of
academic freedom." In doing so, the
Yale Corporation took the stance that
its investments were "neutral," and
that the mere act of owning and
benefitting from shares in no way
implies support or criticism of a
company's actions. The trustees
maintained that to remain silent is to
remain neutral. A year later, this statement met with
serious questioning in a seminar
project led by Professor John Simon of
the Law School. The project
formulated a set of guidelines for the
consideration of ethical questions
related to investments. Yale responded
by setting up the University-wide
Advisory Committee on Investment
Responsibility. This body received as
its sole power, however, the task of
reviewing shareholder resolutions
introduced by other shareholders and
advising the Corporation on how it
should vote. The Advisory Committee
has never introduced a resolution of its
own, and its recommendations are not

Yale's investments in companies
operating in the Republic of South
Africa pose a serious challenge to this
stance of neutrality. It is becoming
increasingly obvious that American
investments there both directly and
indirectly support the racist regime of
John Vorster.
------------- NEW DOC -------------------
Examples of direct aid
are well known: IBM (Yale shares
67,650) leases computers to the South
African police and prisons for the
enforcement of the repressive passbook
laws; GM and Ford (Yale shares
103,600and 127,500 respectively)
supply trucks to the military; Citicorp
and J.P. Morgan (Yale shares 36,900
and 35,200) made loans totalling
$110 million to the South African
government in 1976 alone.
------------- NEW DOC -------------------
But the
presence of foreign investment by its
very nature, through the promotion of
capital-intensive-and highly
technological industry, supports the
white regime indirectly by serving only
the needs of the white population. Ambassador Radha Krishna Ramphul,
upcoming President of the U.N. Security Council, told the Council in
March of this year,

"It is crystal clear that foreign
investment is not geared to improving
the situation in Southern Africa at
present. Foreign funds are not directed
to agricultural development in the
rural areas or to social programmes
which would benefit the life of
Africans. The South African
government is not using those
funds... to dismantle apartheid in some
absentminded way. To the contrary,
thanks to foreign investment and
foreign loans, the South African
government has been able to build and
maintain a garrison state."

In addition, the recently enacted South
African law requiring foreign concerns
either to produce what the government
orders or to face nationalization of
their assets makes every corporation,
willingly or unwillingly, an accomplice
to the continuation of apartheid. In view of such evidence, it is plain
that American corporate investment in
South Africa is by no means neutral,
but is a bulwark in the fortress of
apartheid. This fact calls Yale's
supposed neutrality in investments
into serious question. If Yale continues
to reap the benefits of the profits on
oppression in South Africa and
remains silent, can it still claim that it
is taking no stance? Is not this very
silence a position in support of foreign
investment in South Africa, in support
of apartheid? -by Nick Olcott and Alisa Klaus

For those of you who do not speak
Scientist, the title of writer-director
Steven Spielberg's latest feature
describes an intimate inter-planetary
rendez-vous. Close Encounters of the
Third Kind is not a futuristic
documentary about inter-earthling
perversions. Rather, it is an allegorical
sci-fi melodrama about two people
whose intitial, illuminating brief
encounter with a U.F.O. leaves them
haunted by its mysterious shape untıl
they find cosmic vindication of their
vision. Close Encounters is an
enjoyable minor fantasy on eternal
themes, but Spielberg's theological
premise is shamelessly commerical and
absurdly simplistic. Alas, at the film's
end I found myself quite as lost in the
proverbial stars as I had been when I
hopefully paid my $4.50; and to my
sense of injury at the poverty of the
spiritual transaction was added the
equally enduring (albeit less
existential) insult of actual penury. After the film opens with the
traditional blinding explosion of white
light, the director thrusts us inside a
Mexican desert sandstorm reminiscent
in ferocity of the Seven Plagues of
Egypt. Here scientists are conducting a
search for clues regarding the existence
of extra-terrestrial life forms. When
an inexplicably contented old man
stammers in Spanish that "the sun has
sung" to him, it is clear to all and
sundry that something is rotten in the
solar system. Spielberg then transports
us to the little house on the prairie in
Muncie, Indiana, where Jillian Guiler
(Milinda Dillon) lives with her toddler
son, Barry. To his mother's horror,
Barry is lured into the night by
seductive extra-terrestrial vibes. She
gives chase and catches him on a
deserted highway where both Guilers
run into Roy Neary (Richard Dreyfus),
a neighbor who claims to have seen an
Unidentified Flying Object. As the
adults stand arguing by the roadside,
several 1977-style flying saucers fly by. Barry, delighted by the evocative
conical Shape he perceives, trills out,
"Ice cream!" Although Ronni Neary
(Terri Garr) is understandably skeptical
when her husband recounts his
adventures, reports of strange
phenomena all over the world (the
earth) are released shortly, and Roy
and Jillian rightly begin to suspect that
the fault is not in themselves but in
their stars after all. In one of the picture's most striking
scenes, little Barry is kidnapped by
clouds of fire.
------------- NEW DOC -------------------
Despite his mother's
desperate attempts to keep him locked
in the house while star wars rage
outdoors, he unerringly walks to the
single unlocked door and opens it. The
visual allusion to The Wizard of Oz
becomes manifest: standing on the
threshold of a singing sun, Barry looks
for all the world like Dorothy opening
the door from her black-and-white
Kansas homestead into the infinitely
more vivid polychromatic Land of Oz. Like a supersonic Pied Piper, the
U.F.O.
------------- NEW DOC -------------------
charms the boy out into the
glare and sweeps him off his feet.
------------- NEW DOC -------------------
Jillian and Roy become obsessed
with the Shape. She cannot stop
sketching it, while he sculpts it in every
dollop of shaving cream, every
spoonful of mashed potatoes. Each
senses the importance of the cryptic
image, yet neither can break the code.
